---
title: "QualCoder 3.3 Release"
date: 2023-05-20
author: ccbogel
category: Misc
---
The latest release of QualCoder is now available. There are binaries for Windows 10/11 and Ubuntu 22.

<https://github.com/ccbogel/QualCoder/releases/tag/3.3>

The changes are detailed below:

Main
----

Import a codes list from a plain text file. One code name per line. No categories are applied.

Accessibility
-------------

Throughout -- added more key shortcuts. Under Help there is an option to display all the key shortcuts.\
The colour selector shows how code colours can be seen with different types of colour impaired vision.\
Under Coding menu there is a new window called Colour scheme. This allows a range of selected colours to be applied to a range of codes. This area also shows how the colours may be seen by people with different types of colour impairment.

Manage files
------------

Can hide columns by right-click on the table header row for options to hide that column or to hide columns beginning with specific text. Or to show columns where the column name starts with specific text.\
Can assign a file to a case via right-click menu when in the cases column.\
Can right-click on a URL in an attribute and open the URL with the default web browser.\
Faster table filling.

### Twitter data

Import twitter data from a fully quoted csv file.\
Example file in Examples folder.\
Requires these exact column names: *id* and *full_text* headers for tweet data and *screen_name* for user data.\
Additional tweet fields can be these exact column names:\
*created_at*, *coordinates*, *retweet_count*, *favorite_count*, *lang*\
Additional user fields can be:\
*location, url, description, followers_count, friends_count, listed_count, favourites_count, statuses_count*

The twitter import page also has an example of how to use R with RTweet to extract tweet data. This was tested and worked before twitter applied a fee for service. Note that currently there is a cost associated with accessing twitter data. I cannot give advice on any problems you may have getting twitter data.

The tweet data is loaded into individual database files (Manage Files), The user data is loaded into cases (Manage cases). Multiple tweets (stored as files are assigned to the matching user (case).

Manage cases
------------

Faster table filling\
Can hide columns by right-click on the table header row for options to hide that column or to hide columns beginning with specific text. Or to show columns starting with a text value.\
Can order by case name or by attribute value, ascending or descending.\
Can hide rows by right-click menu and selecting a text value that equals or 'is like' some chosen text.

Case file manager
-----------------

Some improved functions in this dialog include a check box to hide assigned files. The right hand side text edit will fill with any file text when the file is selected in the left hand side table.

Journals
--------

Some markdown is enacted to make viewing journal entries nicer:\
#, ##, ### for heading levels\
**text** for bolded text\
*text* for italic text

Code text
---------

'in vivo' coding added. Selected text becomes the code

Colour scheme
-------------

